Confessions with the Ba Vang Youth Club
Hello everyone! I'm
very happy to meet you all again in the
next segment of
this program. Today's guest
is someone many
young people have been hoping to hear from
and share their thoughts with.
I feel very fortunate to be able to
convey your questions
to her, and that guest
is Buddhist devotee Ms. Pham Thi Yen, Dharma name Tam Chieu Hoan Quan,
head of the Ba Vang
Youth Club. On behalf of
the young people, I would like to thank you very much for
returning to
our program. And today, I
have a question from a young person who is very
troubled and feels very
lonely and lost. I would like to
ask for your immediate answer.
Ms. Pham Thi Yen, why do I
always feel lonely and lost? No matter
where I am, I find it difficult to fit in. Could you please
give me some advice?
Thank you.  Thank you, ma'am.
Hello Duc Anh, hello everyone
watching the program.
That feeling of loneliness... It's a
feeling that doesn't originate from
external
circumstances, but rather from a
sense of emptiness.
This feeling of emptiness appears in two
situations: firstly,
in a crowded place
where you don't fit in. That is,
you don't
connect with the feelings of others.
For example, people are shouting and having fun,
then they ask each other questions, but
they don't ask you anything. That means you do
n't connect with them, and you ca
n't
interact with them. You're
limited, you don't know how to interact,
and this limitation comes
from your shyness.
Secondly, you don't know what to say. That's why
a
person like this is in two
states. The first state is when
you feel...  People say I'm
not suitable for them, that I'm not compatible with
them, so I don't say anything, I don't say anything.
But because of that kind of behavior,
I feel lost and alone.
Secondly,
when I say something,
people laugh at me, they gang up on me, they
criticize me repeatedly. I
become afraid to speak and
interact with people. I
feel like whatever I say will be criticized, whatever I
say will be criticized.
That feeling of being lost is what it is. And then there's
another situation: I'm alone
like this, I've
lost my direction, I don't know what to do, I can't find direction for
anything
in the future or in the
present. I have no direction,
and I can't find
anyone to ask, no one to
share with.  Because of my own feelings of
loneliness and isolation,
I will guide
you to think about cause and effect. Why do
we feel so isolated? It's because we
often use other people's flaws to
criticize and belittle them, preventing
them from integrating. This makes
them give up,
hinders their development, and makes
them sad. All such people will
suffer the consequences. This prevents
people from supporting and helping them. If
we see someone not
integrating, we should ask them. I often have this
habit. If all people,
including you, have been like this since childhood, I remember
one year when I was in
third grade, there was a girl named Huong. She always had sores and pimples. People
called her Huong, but people gave her the
nickname "dirty Huong." Because she was always covered in sores,
she smelled terrible, and no one wanted
to play with her. I
felt
very sorry for her and I played with her.  Like her, when
she plays with her, she has the advantage of being a
good student. Because she's so good at studying, when she comes to play with her,
everyone who wants to
look at her homework has to play with her.
But this girl, because she has no
one to play with,
she smells bad. And
then she started acting like this: every time
she comes to school, she grabs her
schoolbag. She insists on carrying her schoolbag for
her, and
she feels very awkward, but
she keeps insisting on carrying it for her.
At school, there's always this kind of thing: those
disgusting kids always make
a group carry their schoolbags for them.
So, because she's doing it
from the heart, I think it
comes from her heart. She's
grateful to me, she likes me, that's why
she wants to carry my schoolbag. It's not
like those other people who are being
bossy. But I still feel awkward and
don't let her carry my schoolbag, and
she just keeps doing it whenever she gets the chance.  For example, if someone is carrying a
schoolbag, like when they're climbing a hill to go home and
sit down, they might grab the bag
and carry it themselves. The teacher has to try to
hold on to it because if she
lets them carry it, she feels
it's
wrong. So, she usually supports those
who have made mistakes and are
disliked the most.
She would never be the one to gang up on someone who
has made mistakes and ca
n't fit in,
making them lose their place.
That's an
unwholesome, evil mind, not a
kind mind. Therefore, when she interacts with
Buddhists, she guides them on this matter, teaching them how to
behave
because the karmic consequences are not
light. It can lead to a
loss of wisdom later in life, people
won't love them, and they won't progress.
No matter what life they're born into, they'll remain
lowly and never attain a
high or good position. That's karma.  You
have to endure it because if you
keep feeling lost and out of place, you won't be able to
fit in. Gradually, it will lead
to many things, like feeling too sad and resentful, unable to
stand up, lacking confidence, and ultimately
becoming negative. Who contributes
to people becoming negative? It's
these people, those who constantly
mock and ridicule others' flaws in public,
without considering
their feelings or emotions. They are
heartless and insensitive. That's the karmic consequence. So what about
you now? You must
practice self-cultivation, repent for those sins.
You know about Buddha, and you should pray to Buddha.
Now, after
hearing Ms. Yen's sharing, I realize how
much
suffering I've caused those people. Now I vow that from
now on, for all eternity, I will
not do such things. I will cultivate
compassion,
knowing how to support sentient beings, how to
help them
overcome obstacles. I must make
such a vow. Then you begin to
practice. (The old man hears people
saying...)  There's a saying: "Do
n't rush to side with others, don't rush to
expose them or anything like that.
Instead, think of ways to help
people, to help them integrate with
others, to help them find peace, and to help
them rise up. That's
called fearless giving.
This fearless giving brings great merit and generates
wisdom. Among all forms of giving, there's material giving (
money), labor giving (
effort or even one's body), and selfless giving (giving without intention). This is giving to
relieve suffering and bring joy. When
people are suffering, anxious, or in need of
something, you give
them peace and security. That's
fearless giving. This is the
highest form of giving. It
benefits oneself and all sentient beings,
so you must practice selfless giving.
Selfless giving means that when they need
money, you use money; when they need
effort, you use effort; when they
need your body, you give it away, for example, by
giving or donating something to them."  So,
we have to find this person,
this recipient of the donation, who is good and
beneficial to the world, saving
many people from suffering. Or, if
we ourselves feel that we have the health to
save many people from suffering, we
must always choose the
most unintentional acts of giving that bring the greatest peace to sentient beings. For
example, in
conveying Buddhist teachings, you can go home and
share videos about Buddhism to help
people listen, understand,
abandon evil, and do good. That is also one form of
unintentional giving. But
the act of fearless giving in this life is something
we should practice because in
our daily interactions, we
often fall into such sins,
and few people can
recognize these sins because of
ignorance. Therefore, we often create
evil karma.
People always
think about creating karma. I hope
you will do this in all aspects of your
life. I don't know what your family, circumstances, or
friends are like.  Therefore, you should
apply her words to bring
peace to others and never conspire to
cause others suffering. Yes,
thank you very much, teacher. Honestly,
through her answers, I
also feel the
same as she shared in previous episodes:
that she also has a
desire to help many people.
I think that the person who asked this question
should take her as an example to
always practice selfless giving,
always bringing joy to
those who are in difficulty and not
conspiring with others to make them
feel lost and miserable
in life. Hopefully, through
this episode of the Youth Club's heart-to-heart talk,
not only the person who asked the question but all of
you who are facing
difficulties, loneliness, and feeling lost like
this, you will find a
solution to your problems in
life. Through this, I hope that
you, especially young people, will try to
arrange your time to reflect.  Studying Buddhist
teachings is beneficial because it truly brings so many
advantages and disadvantages to you.
If you can arrange it, please come and
join the Three Golden Youth Club and
participate in the Q&A session
about the Three Golden Youth Club. Once again, on
behalf of all of us, I
thank you very much. We don't
know what more to say except that we hope you will try to
arrange more time to come and be
with us. And once again, whenever
you encounter difficulties or
problems, don't hesitate to come and share your thoughts
with the Three Golden Youth Club. Once again,
goodbye and see you again.
[Music]
[Applause]
K
[Music]
[Applause]